depfinder
George Vlahavas
%%mtime(%m/%d/%Y)

%!target: man
%!encoding: utf-8

= NAME =

depfinder - a tool that finds dependencies of slackware packages


= SYNOPSIS =

**depfinder** [//OPTIONS//] //PACKAGE// or //PACKAGING-DIRECTORY//


= DESCRIPTION =

**depfinder** is a tool that finds the dependencies of Slackware packages.
It examines binary files in the packages and the libraries they link to and
reports the packages these libraries belong to in a dependency list.
The dependencies are by default being output to a comma separated
list without version information, but there are options to output
dependencies with version information and to a file: a .dep file
with a comma separated list without version information, or a
//slack-required// file that includes version information.

**depfinder** can check //.tgz//, //.tbz//, //.tlz//, //.txz//,
//.tbr// and //.tzst// packages for dependencies
but you can also point it to a packaging directory where you have the
package contents extracted.

**depfinder** uses **readelf** to discover shared library dependencies
without executing the package binaries, making it safe to use on
untrusted or cross-compiled packages. Sonames are resolved to real
library paths using the system **ldconfig** cache. Detecting python
dependencies is also supported by use of the **-p** switch.

If a certain library is included in more than one packages, then all
packages that include it will be listed in one entry using an "or"
statement (which is expressed with the pipe symbol: "|"). For example a
dependency for a library that is included in both //openssl// and
//openssl-solibs// packages will be output as:
//openssl|openssl-solibs//.

You need to have all required dependencies for any package you run
**depfinder** on installed in your system. That will of course always be
the case when you are building your own packages. In case there is a
library that is required by a package you run **depfinder** on that is
missing from your system, **depfinder** will report the missing library
and will not generate a dependency list.

If a python module that is needed by a package is not present in the
system, a warning will be displayed instead of an error and the
dependency list will be generated. Consider these warnings as hints for
missing dependencies, optional or not.

**depfinder** also has support for running multiple jobs which makes it
a **lot** faster on PCs with multiple CPUs/cores when processing packages
with many binaries.


= OPTIONS =

: **-f**
Outputs dependencies to a file instead of stdout. By default it creates a
.dep file with a comma separated list of dependencies without version
information. See also **-s**.

: **-s**
Outputs dependencies including version information. Dependencies will be
listed in the format following this example: "zlib >= 1.2.3-i486-2". If
combined with **-f**, it creates a slack-required file which can be
placed inside the package under the //install// directory.

: **-a**
Checks all files in the directory tree instead of following the FHS. If
**-a** is not used, then depfinder looks for binary files only under
///sbin// ,///usr/sbin//, ///usr/bin//, ///bin//, ///usr/libexec// and
///usr/lib//, ///lib// or ///usr/lib64//, ///lib64// for 32-bit and
64-bit architectures respectively. If **-a** is used, then depfinder
searches for files dynamically linking to libraries anywhere inside the
package. This option could be useful if the installation scripts put
binaries in a non-standard location.

: **-p**
Attempts to discover python dependencies. Using this switch, depfinder
searches for all files that can be recognized as python scripts.
All python files that are detected are parsed for modules that they
import and depfinder ultimately reports which packages these modules
belong to along with all other detected dependencies. Python 3 is used
by default.

: **-3**
Kept for backwards compatibility; python3 is now the default when **-p**
is used. This option is a no-op.

: **-j** //jobs//
Specifies the number of parallel jobs for scanning ELF binaries. Speeds
up processing of packages with many binaries when set to match your CPU
count. Pass //auto// to detect the number of available cores
automatically. (default: 1)


= GENERAL OPTIONS =

: **-v**
Shows version information for depfinder and exits.

: **-h**
Prints a usage message briefly summarizing all command-line options
and exits.


= ENVIRONMENT =

: **DEPFINDERNOEXIT=1**
By default depfinder exits with an error if the package requires
libraries that are not present in the system. Setting this variable to
**1** suppresses that exit, allowing the dependency list to be generated
even with missing libraries.


= AUTHORS =

depfinder was written by George Vlahavas <vlahavas~at~gmail~dot~com>


= SEE ALSO =

**readelf**(1), **ldconfig**(8), **ldd**(1)
